In 1946, the first missionaries
arrived in Peru,
and the good news spread quickly
in the Spanish field.
However, centuries of mistreatment
caused many Quechua-speaking people
to regard outsiders
with reservation and mistrust.
Over the decades,
interested ones had to study in Spanish
in order to learn the truth,
even if it wasn’t their first language.
It’s true that many Quechua speakers
also understand Spanish;
it’s the language commonly used
in business and taught in school.
However, it was noted that although
they understood the words we were teaching,
the Bible’s message
didn’t easily reach the heart.
The good news still had to be preached
not only in every nation
but to all “tribes and peoples and tongues.”
In 1992, the branch office
in Peru received permission
to translate literature into Quechua
and to start a preaching initiative
to test the response in the field.
When Quechua speakers were approached
with a warm greeting and presentation
in their own language,
it made a remarkable difference.
People started responding favorably
to the message,
and many Bible studies were started.
Gradually, translators realized
that it was necessary
to translate into other Quechua languages.
Just as there are a variety
of cultures within Peru,
there are also a variety
of Quechua languages spoken.
Translation teams were established
where three of these languages are spoken
—in Ayacucho, Cuzco, and Huaraz.
In 2013, permission was granted to build
two new remote translation offices
—one in Cuzco and another in Ayacucho.
Many local and international brothers
volunteered to help on the building projects.
Whether rain or shine,
they worked together with a joyful spirit.
By early 2016,
the new offices were ready to operate.
On May 1, 2016,
Brother Geoffrey Jackson
of the Governing Body
delivered the dedication talk
of these new facilities
to a delighted audience
from around the country.
We promise to use
these buildings exclusively
for Jehovah’s praise and glory.
Do you accept our resolution?
These facilities are like gifts from Jehovah.
Not only are the new offices
clean and beautiful
but they are specifically designed
for the translation work.
One of the most important features
of the new offices, therefore,
is the audio recording studio,
equipped with a special soundproof room
where high-quality recordings are produced.
Children and older ones alike
are captivated
by videos of Juancito and Anita,
the Quechua version of Caleb and Sophia.
Just as when a tree grows and flourishes
when provided with an ample supply of water,
congregations
have been growing and being fortified
by an increasing flow of spiritual food
in their own language.
This great ingathering of the Quechua people
to Jehovah’s organization
truly contributes to the fulfillment
of the prophecy at Revelation 7:9:
“Look! A great crowd, . . .
out of all nations
“and tribes and peoples and tongues,
“standing before the throne
and before the Lamb.”